I can jump further by getting a running start. Mind the overshoot.
Rest shall heal your beleaguered body. Any smart adventurer brings a bedroll... and a lookout.
A torch should be kept dry, and a blade sharp.
The key to a long life is knowing when to run.
The Jacksberry bush, known for its edible berries, is closely-related to its deadly-poisonous cousin of the same name. So much so that they sometimes cannot be told apart.
It's a good idea to bandage and suture arterial wounds as soon as possible. Death happens slowly, and then all at once.
Gripping bleeding bodyparts makes them bleed slower. The harder you grip, the less you bleed.
Blacksteel is a blessed alloy of pure silver and steel. Its recipe was stolen by Zizite heretics and perverted into Darksteel.
Skeletons have no BRAIN. Try to FEINT them. But don't tell this to everyone!
A DODGING rogue who keeps their eyes FIXED retreats only backwards.
An arcing arrow can only hit a target below you, not above you. A thrown rock, however...
The Aragn is a large black spider capable of outrunning even the swiftest of elves. Its venom is paralytic, and it preys within sewers and bogs.
The bog be a dangerous place full of chittering fiends. That dendorite may be covered in leaves and mud, at least they make for a good guide.
With the care they put into their work, it is said that the food made by Eora's faithful energize the soul like no other dish.
Pomegranate arils are boons sent to mortals by Eora to test whether they're dedicated enough to care for something precious.
The mythical ashen aril is coveted by thieves, heretics and all manner of ruffians. For it is said to yield unimaginable power.
The winds tell tales of Astratan devout turning flesh to flame and flame to blades. Beware her fury.
The pauper never had much, but his worship for Abyssor led the faithful to mend his broken frame with ancient strength.
Within tombs full of treasure, there are oft secret entrances and hide-aways. Look closely at walls, rock or not. Occasionally, you should take a look up...
The growing power of Z often causes volf and saiga alike to reanimate with frightening speed. Butcher your dead.
Placing a chair before climbing a wall makes it easier to scale.
Odd tentacle growths are known to burst from the ground. Touch them. Pestra's gifts will shine upon you.
Campfires and bedrolls alone aid in fatigue. Combining both, however, grants a particularly potent restorative effect...
Hand-axes are the superior weapon of choice for destroying most objects and barriers... though iron gates will require a mace.
Bandages soak up a limited amount of blood. Get stitching quick, or die snow white.
YIELDING slows your bleeding and prevents your assailant from decapitating you, though you will struggle to attack in return.
Crops can be dug up with spades. Hoes allow for instant removal of weeds. Compost, nitesoil, and bones can be combined by farmers into the legendary "fertilizer".
Sleeves can be torn for cloth. They can also be rolled up, if you care for the aesthetic.
With enough STRENGTH, locked doors can be kicked open. You may not bust it down on the first go, keep trying!
In lieu of heartblood, leechbait can be crafted from impure lux. This can then fetch leechticks, which can eat a person's lux to restore lyfe to another...
It is that odd fluid, that -dark- blood. It pools upon the calyxes held aloft by one of Pestra's sacred beasts. Foul taste aside, it grants reprieve from the body's ails. And thusly, it can even cure the horrid decay wrought by black rot.
Those odd little piles of dirt in the woods are oft left by tasty, tasty creechurs. Go on, have a look, follow the trail to receive a treat, or a claw... Xylix willing.
Using a rope on an open space drops the rope down, allowing allies to easily scale a given surface. Pull it onto yourself to retrieve it.
Having someone else within your personal space assists in climbing many surfaces.
Shift-clicking allows you to EXAMINE items, and EXAMINING items allows you to further understand all the MECHANICS tethered to them. Check a bed to figure out how to sleep, check a tree to figure out how to climb, check a steak to figure out how to eat, and much more!
Spells are bound to ALT ONE through ALT SIX. Control-clicking said spells and shifting them between each other changes which spell is bound to a given number.
If someone is barely conscious, it means they are not long for this world. By WEAKLY blowing air into their MOUTH, even the most horrifically injured can be brought back from death's door.. so long as any gushing wounds've been stitched up beforehand.
The body is a fickle instrument, equally resillient and fragile. Water is the best choice for rebalancing the humors that're disrupted from blood loss, lifeblood excels at mending the disrupted state of flesh, and antidotes turn poisonings into mere hiccups.
Within the Town are many posters, banners, and signs. By shift-clicking them, you can further EXAMINE them to get a crash course on many basic MECHANICS. Check the Church's banner to learn about Psydonia's religions, check the Clinic's posters to learn about how to save a lyfe, check the Guild's signs to learn about how weapons-and-armor work, and much more!
In lieu of a blacksmith's hammer, one can use a repair kit to patch up their damaged equipment 'on the go'. Three pieces of scrapped iron can be assembled into a kit, and sliding three more pieces into the kit'll ready it for use. As for where the scrap comes from? Just hack an iron weapon to pieces!
Almost everyone has a tendancy to pack a copy of "Tips, Tricks, & Triumphs: The Novice's Handbook To Azuria" inside their satchel, at the start of each week. Shift-clicking this Azurian booklet will show you its description, which contains the link to Azure Peak's official wikipedia!
Time heals all wounds. Sleeping heals them quicker. Sleeping in a decent bed with a crackling campfire within spitting range heals them even quicker.
Jackberries are a refreshingly light treat for those that find themselves peckish, while roaming through the bush-laden forests of Psydonia. A wise traveler knows to always take a testing bite before gorging on the vine's fruits, lest they die with a bitter taste on their tongue.
Allspice is a specially-blended mixture of salt, pepper, sugar, pumpkin spice, and rocknut powder. When properly dried by a well-seasoned culinarian, it can turn even the dreariest broths into a royally delicious stew.
Candies, better known as 'sweetglass', are a popular treat amongst Psydonia's youth and elders. The most popular recipe, as dictated in the Keep's Otavan-scribed cookbooks, calls for a handful of raisins to be smeared in honey and doused in a pot of boiling fat-or-tallow.
Boiling water does not discriminate, when it comes to making stew. Even the most inedible parts of a butchered carcass, like bones and viscera and sinew, can be distilled into broth with enough time.
A stew is only as good as its ingredients - the better they are, the more filling and rich the stew will be. A raw chicken carcass and some whole potatoes might make for a decent broth, but a lavishly-peppered frybird and some roasted potatoes will make for a positively divine stew.
Most food eventually spoils if kept outside of a chest for long enough, unless packed in ration wrapping paper. Just one piece from the Inn is enough to keep even the most extravagent cakes and finemeals fresh until the week's end; a blessing for those who want to subsist off more than hardtack and coppiette, while adventuring abroad.
Pepperberries are the closest relative to the Jackberry fruit, and - when pitted against an untrained eye - virtually indistinguishable from one-another. While a Pepperberry is incredibly toxic when eaten straight off the vine, the spice born from milling its roasted seeds can make for an excellent seasoning.
Acid is an unnatural ichor that is rarely found elsewhere, beyond the Underdark's most deepest pits. It needs only a moment to turn even the hardiest vessels into naught-but-ash.
Bleeding may not kill faster than a blade to the neck, but it is far more insidious in its persistance. Even without a single unstemmed wound, those who've already lost too much blood will soon perish without aid.
RESUSCITATING can be done by targeting someone's mouth while the 'WEAK' combat intent is selected. Breathing air into another can prolong their suffering on this world, and - with the right medicine - bring them back.
SHIFT-CLICKING with the RIGHT MOUSE BUTTON allows you to look farther ahead in a chosen direction. The higher your PERCEPTION is, the further that you can peer into the distance.
CLICKING with the MIDDLE MOUSE BUTTON allows you to perform a SUBINTENT action, highlighted to the LEFT of your HANDS. Make sure to leave them unselected, if you happen to be in the business of butchering carcasses.
JUMPING is performed by MIDDLE-CLICKING a chosen tile while the 'JUMP' subintent is selected. With it, you can leap over tables and smaller gaps in the terrain.
LEAPING is performed by MIDDLE-CLICKING a chosen tile while both the 'JUMP' subintent and 'RUN' button are enabled. This covers far more ground than a traditional hop, but comes at the cost of a harsher landing.
KICKING is performed by MIDDLE-CLICKING someone while the 'KICK' subintent is selected. Besides knocking over washbins and busting doors down, successfully kicking a foe into a structure will always topple them over.
BITING is performed by MIDDLE-CLICKING someone while the 'BITE' subintent is selected. Flowing streams can be sipped from, while those with a more humanitarian diet can use this to indulge in veiny treats.
SPECIALS are performed by MIDDLE-CLICKING a chosen tile while the 'SPECIAL' subintent is selected. If you're skilled enough with a weapon, you can use this to unleash an especially powerful attack - mind the cooldown.
TRIUMPHS can be earned through either surviving a week's trials, or by completing whatever tribulations sprout up along the way. These can be exchanged in the LOADOUT for a wide variety of cosmetic decorations.
VICES are an unavoidable part of lyfe, and - if left unfulfilled - can utterly ruin your mood. Those riding off the high of a recent TRIUMPH can temporarily smother their VICE for a week's tyme.. at a cost.
VIRTUES embody a special quirk that differentiates your actor from the rest of the rabble. Those who've completely surrendered themselvse to the whims of fate and causality can embody TWO VIRTUES, instead of just ONE.
STATPACKS bolster the statistical power of your actor. While this can allow for some truly legendary feats, one must always remember that great power always come at a greater cost.
MOODLETS sway the outcome of any given week. Treating yourself right and routinely indulging in your VICES will leave you unfettered by even the most discouraging sights. Neglect yourself for too long, however, and..
STRENGTH represents your actor's raw might. This affects the lethality of their strikes with fists and blades, how quickly they can struggle out of a tight spot, and how effectively they can overpower others.
WILLPOWER represents your actor's mental fortitude. This affects the threshold of how much pain they can undertake before collapsing, and how severely their mood is swayed in the face of trouble-and-trauma.
CONSTITUTION represents your actor's physical resilience. This affects the health of each individual body part, how much blood can be spilled before succumbing, and their ability to resist debilitating strikes.
PERCEPTION represents your actor's keen-eyedness. This affects the accuracy of their strikes, the lethality of their shots with bows and slings, and their chances of successfully discovering hidden surprises.
INTELLIGENCE represents your actor's wisdom. This affects the potency of their magicka, the preciseness of assessing another's skills-and-weaknesses, and their chances of successfully performing unfamiliar tasks.
SPEED represents your actor's fleet-footedness. This affect the haste of their movements, their proficiency with many underhanded tactics, and their chances of successfully dodging oncoming attacks.
FORTUNE represents your actor's luck. This affects their chance to sway seemingly random events in their favor, or - in the inverse - against their favor.
Remember that there is another face behind the masks of every actor you meet. Cruelty in service of a story becomes unacceptable when it is done purely out of single-minded malice.
New? Overwhelmed? Confused? Try checking out 'A Tutorialeer's Handbook' from the Loadout's 'Miscellanious' section, in order to get a crash course on everything you'd need to know!
In the mynd's eye, otherwise known as the OOC tab... A handy Azurean encyclopedia can be found. Recipes, spells, anything a burgeoning adventurer might need!
